# pages 2-10 of 1894 journal
Madrid. Spain. Nov. 26. We left Gibraltar on the morning of the 20th
Madrid Spain . Nov . 28 ROSE 27 He left Gibraltar on the morning of the 20that

at 8 o’clock – going by boat for half and hour to the Spanish frontier – where
 8 o'clock going by boat for half an hour to the spanish frontier where

we were rather roughly handled in the Custom House. Theodore lost a lot of
we were rather roughly handled in the Custom House , Theodore lost a lot of

cigarettes – and the only thing that saved his boxes of favorite cigars was
cigarettes and the only thing that saved his boxes of favorite cigars was

the word Spain branded on the boxes. They dove to the bottom of my trunk and
the word spain branded on the boxes They dove to the bottom of my trunk and

hauled out my case of homeopathic medicines – and had a solemn pow-wow over
hauled out my case of homeopathic medicines solemn post- see over It . 

it. Then they seized my camera that Jones was carrying – insisted on having
 Then they seized my camera that Jones was carrying - insisted on having

the case opened, and were too much afraid of taking out the camera
the case opened , and were too much afraid of taking out the camera

themselves. I took it out – took off the cap and pointed the thing at them
theone ) You I took it out - took off the cap and pointed the thing at them

– to their manifest alarm – for they hurriedly motioned to put it back safely
- to their manifest alarm for they hurriedly motioned to put it back safely

in its case. Then they fell upon a stout little basket I was carrying, 
in its ones . They they fall upon a about little barret I was carrying ,

filled with my various bottles – drew all of them out, and came upon a big
filled with my various bottles - grow all of them out , and came when a big

bottle of glycerine which they turned over and over, and as it looked like
battle of glycerine which they turned over and over , and as it looked like

something good to drink, I was in hopes they would try it. I would gladly
something good to drink . I In hopes they would try it . I would gladly

have sacrificed a cherished bottle of glycerine for the pleasure of seeing
have ano rifleed a cherished bottle of glycerine for the pleasure of seeing

them choking over it. The English have recently built a fine railway from
the choking over it The English have recently built a fine railway from

Gibraltar to Cordova connecting with the other Spanish lines – thus
CA braltar to Cordova competing with the other Spanish lines - thus

releasing Gibraltar from her isolated position. We had a comfortable ride to
releasing Gibraltar from her isolated position No had a comfortable ride to

Cordova – through generally dreary, vast, waste country, except for
Cordon - through generally dreary , past , mate country , ex copt for

the olive orchards. We were almost an hour late, and our train from Seville,
the olive orchards is were almost An hour late , and our train from seville ,

in the wagon lit of which we had 2 compartments engaged, was already in.
in the magen 210 of which we had 2 compartments engaged , was already in

However we had more than 15 minutes, so our luggage was scuttled into the
However we had more than is minutes , to our Luggage vanscuttled into the

we were told that they never booked luggage so late. Nothing would 
we were code that they Never booked luggage so late . Nothing would Ing at name arturs the wars

move them, and we stood staring indignantly at our train, until it 
move them , and we stood staring Indignantly at our train , until It Isn't purses see If we had a 

moved off for Madrid. We said some bad words and commented
moved off Into our tings for labels . To said some bad words and commented

satirically on the method of running railways in Spain, where passengers
satirically on the method of running wellsays in spain , where passengers

seem to be incidental factors – but the officials’ feelings did not
seem to be gets drove to our hotel fooddental factors - but the officials' feelings did not

seem to be wounded, so, making the best of the business,
seem to be and our pinned is stuffs rounded , so , making the after bars ands of best of the business,

we drove to the Hotel where we stayed day 7 years ago – and the next
we drove to the Hotel where task ursuline stayed a day I years age - and the next

morning walked to the Mosque or Cathedral, and then afterwards to the little
morning walked to the Mosque or Cathedral , and then afterwards to the little

plaza near for a view of the bridge across the Guadalquiver, the
place near for I never barry a view of the bridge across the Guadalquiver , the

foundations of which are Roman and the rest Moorish. A promising era
foundations of which with Valuesspent are Roman and the rest Moorish , A promising are

seems to have set in for the Mosque – for many of the built up
seems to have not in lane 's boss for the Mosque And the slaves for many of the built up

arches are being restored – the stuff added in later and Christian times
arches are being restored the stuff added in later at home and Christian times

carted away, and the beautiful Moorish arches, ornaments and paintings
carted away , and the beautiful Moorish arches , moments and paintings

opened up once more. But I am afraid that the Cathedral itself, which so
opened un once sore adorable But I am afraid that the Cathedral Itself , witch so

obstructs and ruins the wonderful perspective effect of the arches, 
obstructs and What DOES A ruins the wonderful perspective affect of the arches ,

and all the tawdry altars which intrude themselves everywhere will never be
and all the landry altars which intrude themselves everywhere will never be

done away with. One exquisitely beautiful portion, called the place of the
done with . one exquisitely beautiful portion , called the place of the

Kalefs has been entirely opened up since we were here last – and the
Kalata has been entirely opened up since we were here last the

decorations and colour are quite perfect, and the tiles quite marvelous. We
decorations and colour are quite perfect , and the tiles quite marvell Ous

left a 2:30 in the afternoon for Madrid – Theodore, Nettie and I having what
to Talk at 230 In the aremeen for lacked Theodore attis and I having what

is called a Berlina, where were 3 beds on reclining chairs – while Mr.
is called A barking , share ware ? beds on esedining chairs while try

Palsley and Jones were in another. We were fairly comfortable – though the
Paisley and Jones ware in another vare fairly confortable though theancient

ancient smell that pervaded the cavities from which our coffin-like beds
ane ! I that promded the cavities from which our coffin-like bede

were pulled rather weighed upon my senses. At last, sleeping very soundly,
were pulled rather weighed pon my senses . At last , sleeping very soundly

a rush of cold air, and saw Theodore and Nettie sitting up staring at
To root of gold alty and see theodore and bottle sitting up star to count the Ing at

some porters who were jabbering Spanish to us, and we at last
some The pope pastor who wore Jabbering spanish to as by ty ba BA no wo at LOFT

perceived that we had arrived at Madrid, so we scuttled into our things
perceived that poynt got grant park arrived at Madrid , as we scuttled into things

as best we could – and in the cold light of early dawn drove to our
as best we could - and in the cold light of ourly any thing she was houses damn drove to our

hotel, I with boots unbuttoned and no gloves, and our pockets
hotel , I with boots unbuttoned and no gloves on the matters , so and our pockets

stuffed with soap dishes, tooth brushes etc. After having made our
stuffed with soap dishes , tooth brushes ate and any After having made our

toilets and eaten a hot breakfast, we took ourselves off to the Museo –
toilets and eaton a not breakfast , to took ourselves off to the theme

incomparable as I knew it to be, I never before realized how much so. 
Incomparable as I knew it to be , I never before realized how much to .

Aside from the wonderful Velasquezs there are adorable Raphael’s and the
Aside from the wonder ful Velasquezs there are adorable Raphael 's and the

most perfect Titians I have ever seen. His equestrian portrait of
post port not Titians I have a Bad a man He equestrian portrait of

Charles V and the standing portrait – the portrait of the hateful Philip II –
charles V the standing portrait - the portrait of the hateful Philip any# 3 5 If 

Adam and Eve – Entombment – and a host of others. The most adorable
Adam and - Entombment Ba bar a boat of others . The most adorable

little cabinet picture of the Holy Family by Raphael – 2 delightful
little cabinet ploture of the Holy family cy Raphael C PB & 2 delightful

portraits of Parmigiano and Holy Family - a Giorgione, and one treasure
portraits of canalglance and Holy Family a Glor stone , and one treasure

after another – until it was quite bewildering. We came away at one
after another - until it was quite be widering . we came away at one

o’clock quite congealed with cold. The next day, Nettie and Lapsley, Jones
o'clock quite congealed with cold . The next day , bettis and Lapaley Jones

and a valet de place made an early start for Toledo. Theodore spent the
and A valet de place made early start for Toledo Theodore spent the

morning at the gallery, and came home in a maze of delight – and I not
morning at the gallery , and came home in a mass of delight and I not

feeling very well sat by the fire and wrote letters. The next day the rest
feeling very well out by the flea and wrote letters The next day the root

went to the Escorial – Theodore and I spent 3 hours at the Gallery – and
won't to the Racerial Theodore and I spent 3 hours at the Gallery 

yesterday being Sunday, we all went to the gallery in the morning. Nettie 
yesterday being Sunday , we all went to the gallery in the morning . Nettle

the rest to a bull fight! We found the royal park distinctly depressing – limited, 
the ros I beat ticket to found the royal park distinctly printing Drafted ,

badly cared for, wretchedly planted – afterwards we drove to the
badly dared for , wretchedly planted - afterwards we drove " of the

great park – but were so cold and tired we could not enjoy anything and came
great park . but were so cold and tired we could not enjoy anything and back

home wondering at the crowds of people in the Park, and in the streets, and
home pondering at the brands of people In the Park , and In the atroots It

if anywhere in the big city of Madrid there could be anybody left in a house.
 anywhere in the big city of madrid there abald be anybody loft in a house .

We got off at 6 tonight for Seville. Jones is packing – and we take our
He got off at 6 tonight for sorlife . Jones to packing and we take our

last afternoon at the gallery. Granada. Nov. 29. We had a most
lest afternoon at the Ballots Hard Granada . " How we Had a most

uncomfortable ride to Seville the other night – arriving about 10 in the
uncomfortable than to seville the other night arriving about 10 in the

morning. Went to the Hotel de Madrid, and were shown to the very rooms we
morning . Tent to the Hotel de Madrid , and were shown to the very rooms to

occupied 7 years ago, with Charlie and Nellie. After breakfast went to the
occupied 7 years ago , with Charlie and Mallto . After breakfast want to the

Cathedral, where we were not allowed to put our heads in hardly – as the
Cathedral , where we were not allowed to put our heads in hardly - as the

whole great structure was filled with scaffolding and mighty supports. Soon
whole grant structure me filled with scaffolding and nighty supports been

after we were last there, one of the great central piers toppled over one
after be wars Inat there , one of the great central piers toppled over one

night – and the whole edifice on examination was found so unsettled by various
night and the whole edifice on examination was found so unsettled by various

earthquakes that a mighty restoration was necessary. In the afternoon a
earthquakes that a mighty restoration me necessary In the after noon a

short visit to the almost uninteresting gallery, and to the Caradid
short visit to the almost uninteresting gallery , and to the Caradid

hospital, and then to the Aleazar, and a last peep into the Cathedral in
hospital , and to the Messer , and a last peep Into the Cathe dral in

the gloom of the evening, brought us back to the hotel in time for tea – and
the gloom of the evening , brought us back to the hotel In time For ton and

we lamented, at least Theodore and I, that time and money had been wasted
in Invented , at Isn't Theodore and I , that time and money had boon wasted

in Seville. A start the next morning at 10, and a long railway ride to
in Seville A start the next morning at 10 , and a Long railway ride to

very tired and a long ride up to this hotel in the Alhambra grounds. Today it
very tired I long ride up to this hotel in the Alhambra grounds Today rather

has rained. I have stayed in doors. The hotel is almost empty – a stray
. I have stayed in doors . The hotel is lament capitol they 

American or two – and 2 pleasant English people. The former name Biete
workcan or two - 2 pleasant English people . The front and Bloke

Suelos, which it carried when we were here before, has been changed into
Barlow , which it carried when we were here before has been changed into

Hotel de Roma – it is much the same thing however – with a little freshening
Hotel de Rom it is much the same thing how How a little freshening

in the way of paint and paper – but far from luxurious – the table the best
in the way of paint paper - but far from luxurious - the table the best

thing about it. Our rooms are small and dark and not cheerful. Cairo.
thing about It . Our rooms are wall and dark and not cheerful in one Cairo .

Shepheards Hotel. Dec. 21st. It seems a great stretch of time since I
Shepherds Hotel Dec 21 61 If seems a great stretch of the since I

last wrote anything, and the days have been inexpressibly long and tiresome.
inet wrote anything . the days have been inexpressibly long tiresome 

The cold that I began to take in the chill Madrid gallery grew worse and
The cold that began to take in the chill Madrid gallery grew worse and

worse, and I am still in its clutches. We stayed three days at Granada – and
worse in still in its clutches He stayed three days at Granada - and

it rained more or less all the time – it was not cold, except in the house
It rained more or less all the time - It not cold , except in the house

and in our dreary little sitting room, overhung by the weeping and dripping
and in our dreary little sitting room , everhung by the keeping and dripping

trees, with the perpetual sound of a little splashing fountain below, it was
trans , with the perpetual sound of a little splashing found below It was

too gloomy to be brightened by the tiny stove, that only smoked and never
too gloomy to be brightened by the tiny store , that only smoked and never

burned – our bedrooms were very damp. We left for Gibraltar on Sunday Dec.
burned - our bedroomn were very damp He left for Gibraltar on Sunday , Des

On the 5 o’clock train, which made it necessary to be called at a quarter to 4,
on the5 o'clock train , which made If Necessary to be called at a quarter to

in order to dress, breakfast, and drive the long distance to the
In order to dress , brook font , and drive the long distance to the

station. Theodore and Mr. Lapsley breakfasted down stairs – but Nettie and I
station Theodore and NT Langley breakfasted down stairs - but Cattle and I

took our wretched little meal of bad coffee, bad eggs and butter in our
took our wretched Listen ment or bad coffee , but eggs and butter In our

room by the light of the lamp. It seemed quite in the middle of the night 
rose by the light of the lamp . It seemed quite is the middle of the the station ,

when we got into the omnibus and there was an air of flight or 
more aight when we get late the muni bus and there was an air of flight or it to books

secret adventure in it. We had some time to wait in the draughty 
secret adventure In It . To had some time to wait in the doughty i've for'S hours or

station – and then Nettie and I had a Berlina to ourselves, in consideration 
station - and then Nettle and I had a parking to ourselves . In son if this year to waive i deration 

of my ailing throat, and the necessary amount of tobacco 
of my alling threat , and the necessary amount of tobacco hair # 10 she 

smoke Theodore and Lapsley had to manufacture. So we smuggled down in
smoke Theodore and Lapaley had to manufacture pad un he So we snuggled down in

our corners, and went promptly to sleep. At 10 o’clock we reached
our corners , and went promptly to sleep . At 10 o'clock to reached the various

Bobadilla, where we breakfasted and changed cars. As the day
Bobadilla , where we breakfasted and changed cars Is Just Rest from As the day

wore on the wind became very cold and violent – our speed was anywhere from
care on and became very cold and violent - our speed was anywhere from handle Race 

8-10 miles an hour. We arrived at Algemesi after dark in a pouring
8 - 20 miles star hour . We arrived at Myemail after dark In " pouring

rain to learn that no boat had been running from Gibraltar because of the
thin to learn that no beat had been running from Gibraltar because of was La the

storm, for 3 days. We were plunged into instant despair, when we were
storm , for 3 days to were plunged into instant despair , when There at we were

accosted by a pleasant friendly voice in English which explained to us
accosted by a pleasant friendly voice In English which ax of fame plained to un

that its owner was the Gen. Sup. of the English R.R. – and he kindly
that It's omer me the Gon . Sup . of the English R.R set and he kindly

invited us to his rooms near by until some place could be found for the night.
Invited us to his rooms near by until some place could be found for the night .

The pleasant sitting room looked most cheerful – and he gave me a glass of
The pleasant sitting room looked mont choor THE he gave me a glass of

wine and a biscuit – and we warmed and dried ourselves before getting into the
wine and a biscuit - and we warned and dried ourselves before getting into the

curious little affair on wheels called a carriage – Mr. Johnson too, kindly
curious little affair on wheels called a carriage It . Johnson too , kindly

sent one of his men, speaking both English and Spanish with us. The first 
sent one of his me perk ing both English and Spanish with wa he 19 -

hotel to which we went had only 2 rooms to give us. Then we went to another,
at hotel to which an went had only a roots to give us Than we went to another ,

where we found all the rooms we wanted – very clean and almost comfortable –
where we found all the rooms we wanted - vary olen ned almost comfortable 

and we were thankful to get a really good dinner, and go to bed. It was kept
and wa were thankful to get a really good dinner no to bad It was kept

by an old man, with a large family of sons and daughters, who were the
old man , with a large family of sane and daughters , who were theto the We me 

station, uncertain whether the boat would come over from Gib. or
staffed uncertain whether the boat would come over from did of

if we would be obliged to go back for 2 stations on the R.R. and drive for 3
if Long will be obliged to go back for 2 of tions on the R .A little Pony

hours to Gib. Again Mr. Johnson came to our aid, and took us to his
over to Sub . Again it . Johnson came to our old , and look us to the

rooms, until we heard the boat was coming, where we sat for an hour – he
today , until to heard the boat one coming , where to eat for of belly - 

and Theodore talking about building railways – and he showed us a huge book of
and theodore talking about building reclears Most and he showed us a huge book of

photographs that he had taken of the road in its various phases – and told us
photographs that he had taken of the road In the verfour phases - and told 

of the special difficulties they encountered from Gib. to Cordova. Then we
of the special difficulties they encounter from lib . to cordova , Then we

went out to the pier which extends some distance – and found that some of it was 
went out to the pier which extends Some distance - and found that some of it

quite covered with water – the waves breaking from time to time over it.
quite covered with water - the waves breaking from the to time over it

Our little steamer lay some distance out, bobbing up and down on the rough
our little stemmer day some distance out , bobbing up and down on the rough

water, and there were 2 small boats to take us and our luggage out. So we
ration and there were I wall boats to take us our In gaps out So we

waded in some places ankle deep in water, and then we plumped into the boat
ended In bone places ankle deep In water , and then we plumped Into the boat

which was dripping with water, and lifting on the waves in a most unpleasant
which was Gripping with water , and lifting on the moves in a post unpleasant

manner. However we finally reached our former rooms in the Royal Hotel in
manner . However to finally reached our Comer rooms in the Royal Hotel in

Gib., and Mr. Lapsley said goodbye at once and went off to the Werra in
018 and Mir . Impalay sulil goodbye at once and went off to the warra In

which he was going to Genoa. The rain poured hopelessly all that day, and
which he me going to Geton . The rain poured hopelessly all that day 

all the next, while we waited for our P. & O. steamer which was signaled at
all the next , while we mited for our PRO . steamer which me signalled at

4 – when I was bundled into numerous wraps, with a shawl tied over my head,
4 - when I was bundled Into numerous wraps , with a sheet tied over my hand ,

put into a carriage, and then into a small boat, and finally landed on
out into a carriage , and then into a small best , and finally landed on

the deck of the Oriental more dead than alive – I at once went to bed and sent
the deck of the Oriental more dand than 921 80 I at once went to bed and sent

for the ship’s doctor – a very kind, dapper little man in his dinner dress,
for the ship's doctor A very Find , dapper little man in his dinner dress ,

who told me to stay in bed, and gave me some nauseous drugs – and there I
who told me to stay in gave me some nauseous drugs and there I

days, with many a cockroach to keep me company – our rooms were very good – the boat was crowded – 
wheredid to keep an company - our total bore very 

every berth full – but we all had our rooms to
every berth full - but we all had our power to

ourselves. We made Malta the evening of Friday jut at sunset and stopped
afterowes the side walts the evening of friday just of sun get the stepped

some hour to coal – and arrived at Brindisi Sunday morning. English mail – 900
foot hours to goal - and arrived at Brindial Sunday Morning , Ination wall $ 800 

bags arrived at 10pm. But it rained most of the time and I could not be on
bag arrived at 20 P.K But It raised what by the time and I could not be on

deck. I was immensely bored by the whole voyage – Wednesday afternoon we
deck . I was Immensely bored by the whole voyage - wednesday afternoon to

sighted the Damietta light – and at 5 o’clock cat anchor at Port Said where
sighted the Dead the Night - head at I Golook out anchor at Fort Bald where

we lay until midnight coaling again. What a scene from the Inferno it was, 
day until midnight bowling again . That a noone from the inferno it was ,

those black figures in the glare of the torches! We were all packed and ready
those black figures in the glare of the torches were all packed and ready

to land as Ismailia early in the morning – were called at 4:30 – but it was
to land at Canaille early in the morning - called at 4:30 . but it me

after 6 before we got off in the tender. Our 3 nice English boys who sat at
after 6 before we got off in the tends OUT 3 glee English boys who set at

table with us were up to see us off – as well as the Doctor and with no
table with us wore up to see us off - as Told Doctor and with no

regreats I looked my last at the Oriental as she steamed away to Suez. We had
regrets I looked my Inst at the Oriental as the steamed away to sues He had

breakfat and a drive at Ismailia and took the train at 1 o’clock arriving here
breakfast a drive at Ismailin and took the train at 1 o'clock arriving here

at 5:30. Found Mohammed waiting for us and gladly took possession of our
at 5:30 Found Mohammed waiting for an and gladly took possession of our

pleasant rooms here. The next morning we drove over on the other ide of the
pleasant rooms here the next morning we drove over on the other side of the

river to inspect several dahabeahs and at last went to our old Herodotus –
river to inspect several databanks and at last went to our old Herodotus 

which we found in fine order – she having been entirely scraped and repainted
which we found In fine order - she having been entirely scraped and repainted

outside and in. Our old Reis, Fooley, Hasan, and others of our old
outside and In . Our old Heis , Pooley , Hassan , and others of our old

crew were on her – and gave us the heartiest welcome – and we felt at home
crew were on her and gave us the heartiest welcome and we lost at home

there. We looked her carefully over, and decided to make a condition of our
there To looked how carefully over , and decided to make a condition of our

taking her that she should have new carpets – curtains etc. which
taking her that she should have new carpets curtains ate , which

to choose them – and Nettie and I met the agent in the afternoon at
to choose have Nettle I get the agent in afternoon at

Pasquale’s, a large shop here – and drove them all out of their wit because
Penquakes , # da they have - and drove them all out of their alto beauty

of our impossible tastes. Never have I seen anything so hideous in the
of MR . Amongthe tantan . Never have I seen anything so hid goes to the

way of carpets and stuffs. We at last chose not what we liked, but what
way of targets and stuffs . He at last chose not what is Hiked , but what

was least objectionable, and Theodore and Nettie report that they turn out
was lost objectionable and Theodore and Hettle re - port that they turn 

very well. For after leaving Pasquale’s we drove to Dr. Sandwith’s office,
very well . For after leaving Pasquale's we drove to or Sendwith's office ,

who pounded me and stethoscoped me, and said I must go home and stay in the
the pounded me and stethoscoped we and said I must go home and stay in the

house until I got better. Since then, I have stayed in two rooms, and the
house until I get better Since then , I have stayed In the rooms , and the

week has been long, and I find it difficult to get rid of my cough. Our rooms
weak has been long , I find it distinct to get rid of my cough hur rooms

are at the front of the hotel, and overlook the street and entrance and
are at the rest of the hotel , and overlook the street and entrance and

terrace, so that I can stare at the amusing and ever shifting panorama and I
terrace , that I can stare at the amusing and over shifting panorama and I

do stand and tare, until I am too tired to look longer. Fortunately our
do stand and stare , until I too tired to lock langer Fortunately our

sitting room and my room that opens out of it, have both of them open
oftiling room my room that opens out of it , have both of then open

grates, and we have kept fires burning every day. The weather is not very
grates , and have kept fires burning every day , The weather is not very

good – as Dr. Sandwith says “you must remember this is our rough winter
good - as Dr . Sandwith you must remember this is our rough winter

weather”. My room is really huge – with two lofty French windows – two single
weather My room is really huge with two lofty french win two single

lace canopied beds –with their very necessary mosquito nets, two enormous
Ince canopied wedo with their very necessary mos quite nate , two enormous

wardrobes – equally large bureau, dressing table, washstand, lounge and
wardrobes equally large bureau , dressing table , washatand , lounge and

square table in the middle of the room, even with four trunks in it, it 
square table in the middle of the room from with four trunks In it , It

remains spacious. Wednesday, Dec. 26 We came on board the Herodotus on the
remains spacious Wednesday , Due . 25 He came on bound the Herodotus on the

23d Sunday morning – a strong south wind had been blowing for days – but
23d Sunday morning strong south rind had been blowing for but