Madrid. Spain. Nov. 26. 
m? ”tin. dies. 26." _ hy‘lb left Gibraltar on the norn£21 of th. ,

20th at 8 o’clock – going by boat for half and hour to the Spanish frontier –
20th at e o'cllok - going by beet for half an hour to the Spenish frontier -

where we were rather roughly handled in the Custom House. Theodore lost a lot
where se vere 'rathsr roughly handled in the CustOIII House. Theodore lost a lot

of cigarettes – and the only thing that saved his boxes of favorite cigars was
of cigarettes - and th=\cnly thing that saved his boxes or favorite cigars ens

the word Spain branded on the boxes. They dove to the bottom of my trunk and
the word apein branded on the boxes. They dove to the botton of my trunk end

hauled out my case of homeopathic medicines – and had a solemn pow-wow over
hauled out my case of homeopathic medicines - and had a solemn pow-sow over

it. Then they seized my camera that Jones was carrying – insisted on having
it. Then they seixed my cenera that Jones one carrying - insisted on having

the case opened, and were too much afraid of taking out the camera themselves.
the case opened, and were too much afraid of taking out the centre themselves.

I took it out – took off the cap and pointed the thing at them – to their
I took it out - took off the cup and pointed the thing at them - to their

manifest alarm – for they hurriedly motioned to put it back safely in its
manifest elenn — for they hurriedly motioned to put it beck safely in its

case. Then they fell upon a stout little basket I was carrying, filled with my
case. Then they fell upon a stout little hantet I sss carrying, filled with my

various bottles – drew all of them out, and came upon a big bottle of
various bottles - drew all of than out, and came unon a big bottle of

glycerine which they turned over and over, and as it looked like something
glyoerine shioh they turned over and over, and as it looked like something

good to drink, I was in hopes they would try it. I would gladly have
good to drink, I III in hopes they would try it. I would gladly have

sacrificed a cherished bottle of glycerine for the pleasure of seeing them
sac- rificed a cherished bottle of glycrrine {or the pleasure of seeing them

choking over it. The English have recently built a fine railway from Gibraltar
choking over it. The English have recently built a fine reilsny from Gibrnltar

to Cordova connecting with the other Spanish lines – thus releasing Gibraltar
to Cordova connecting with the other Spanish lines a thus releasing Gibraltar

from her isolated position. We had a comfortable ride to Cordova – through
from her isolated position. We had a comfortable ride to Cordova - through

generally dreary, vast, waste country, except for the olive orchards. We
generally dreary, vast, veete country, ex- cept for the olive orchards- We

were almost an hour late, and our train from Seville, in the wagon lit of
were almost an hour late, and our train from Seville. in the wagon 11*- °‘

which we had 2 compartments engaged, was already in. However we had more than
"‘5” " ’“d 2 "mmnmwt' engaged ". already in. Hosever we had more then

15 minutes, so our luggage was scuttled into the we were told that they never
15 minutes, so our I lugggsg 'ggscuttIQd into the bookiny office, wher* to our consternationJul

booked luggage so late. Nothing would move
6. m}: 01' nu 1:“ V s n f, ' . _, mllgwltm "a. m?“ Yer hooked 1w so late. Nothing would move

them, and we stood staring indignantly at our train, until it moved
t“ end ve neon lent. perm we um “ﬂing indiguntly at our this. until it moved

off for Madrid. We said some bad words and commented satirically on
off for her“. we said sue bed werde late our thing‘. u‘ 5,? end commented satirieelly on

the method of running railways in Spain, where passengers seem to be
that?! :1}! Sailing reilweys in Bpein, where passengers sea to be

incidental factors – but the officials’ feelings did not seem to be wounded,
' feelings did not seen to be 

so, making the best of the business, we drove to the Hotel where we stayed day
 the beet of the business, we drove to the Hotel where we eteyed e

 7 years ago – and the next morning walked to the Mosque or Cathedral, and
deg 7 yeers ego ~ and the next morning walked to the Mosque or Gethedrel end

then afterwards to the little plaza near for a view of the bridge across the
then sfterwerds to the little plus near for a View Of the bridge earn-s the

Guadalquiver, the foundations of which are Roman and the rest Moorish. A
Guadelquiver, the foundations of which x. v; Wes ere Renee end the rest loorish. A

promising era seems to have set in for the Mosque – for many of the built up
premising en seems to have set in for the leeque - for leny of the built up

arches are being restored – the stuff added in later and Christian times
arches ere being restored - the stuff added in leter end Christien times

carted away, and the beautiful Moorish arches, ornaments and paintings opened
carted any, and the beautiful Ifeorieh mhes, ornaments and paintings opened

up once more. But I am afraid that the Cathedral itself, which so obstructs
up once more. But X en direid thet the Cathedral itself, which so obstructs

and ruins the wonderful perspective effect of the arches, and all the tawdry
and mine the wenderfui. perspective effect of the arches, and 1111 the tawdry

altars which intrude themselves everywhere will never be done away with. One
eltere Ihieh intrude themselves everywhere will neVer be done any with. One

exquisitely beautiful portion, called the place of the Kalefs has been
exquisitely beautiful portion, called the place of the Kelefs he: been

entirely opened up since we were here last – and the decorations and colour
entirely opened. up since we were here last - end the decorations and colour

are quite perfect, and the tiles quite marvelous. We left a 2:30 in the
are quite perfect, and the tiles quite marvellous. we left at 2:50 in the

afternoon for Madrid – Theodore, Nettie and I having what is called a Berlina,
1fternoon for :adrid - Theodore, hettio and I having what is celled d herlinq,

where were 3 beds on reclining chairs – while Mr. Palsley and Jones were in
where were 3 beds on reclining chairs — while Mr. Paisley and Jones were in

another. We were fairly comfortable – though the ancient smell that pervaded
anothor. de were fairly comfortable - though the‘"°i’"t “mall ah“: prevnded th°

the cavities from which our coffin-like beds were pulled rather weighed upon
cavitigg from which our coffin-like Dede were pulled rather weighld upon

my senses. At last, sleeping very soundly, a rush of cold air, and saw 
Ily sense“, At lest. sleeping “FY "u“dly' I “3 “ﬁnned byd e I I! L ”we a ”maggudw

 Theodore and Nettie sitting up staring at some porters who were jabbering
no Theodore and mm. “an; up eter- et «a $1“ Malta 111.5 ”I?“

Spanish to us, and we at last perceived that we had arrived at Madrid, so we
'2“ 30’5”“; Sputuh teue, and." et lest ' ~ am :9,” ‘ 335%.. Md errued at

scuttled into our things as best we could – and in the cold light of early
near“, ee we eeuttled intetgpillﬁhlmu Met we could - end in the cold light of eerly

dawn drove to our hotel, I with boots unbuttoned and no gloves, and our
dﬂl drove to our hotel, I with boot- unbuttoned end no glovee. .‘i‘b’ “Ht“?

pockets stuffed with soap dishes, tooth brushes etc. After having made our
end Our Mote gutted with eoep diehee, tooth brushe- etc. Mterﬂl‘tegn‘ .de em" 

toilets and eaten a hot breakfast, we took ourselves off to the Museo –
toilets end eaten a hot bro-Hut, we took cured". of! to the Mueeo -

incomparable as I knew it to be, I never before realized how much so. Aside
incomparable ee I knew it to be, I never before realized how much so. Aside

from the wonderful Velasquezs there are adorable Raphael’s and the most
from the wonder- ful Vein-tug,” there are adorable Rephnel'n and the moot

perfect Titians I have ever seen. His equestrian portrait of Charles V and the
perfect Title” I heve ever eeen. His equestrian pontnit of Charles V end ”‘9

standing portrait – the portrait of the hateful Philip II – Adam and Eve –
{etendln‘ portrait - the portrait of the noun Philip II - Muyud‘ﬂve - Eetonbnent -

Entombment – and a host of others. The most adorable little cabinet picture of
end a host or othora. The most edereble llttle oebiuet picture of

the Holy Family by Raphael – 2 delightful portraits of Parmigiano and Holy
the Holy Family Ly Raphael - 2 delightfnl pertnite of I'emigluon and Holy

Family - a Giorgione, and one treasure after another – until it was quite
Family - e Glor- gione, end one treasure after another - until it no quite

bewildering. We came away at one o’clock quite congealed with cold. The next
be- wildering. We cm Any at one o'clock quite congealed with cold. me next

day, Nettie and Lapsley, Jones and a valet de place made an early start for
dny, Nettle and lapeley, Jone: I1nd a valet de place nude an early start for

Toledo. Theodore spent the morning at the gallery, and came home in a maze of
Toledo. Theodore spent the morning at the gallery, and came home in a mm of

delight – and I not feeling very well sat by the fire and wrote letters. The
delight - and 1 not feeling very well Mt by the fire end wrote letters. The

next day the rest went to the Escorial – Theodore and I spent 3 hours at the
next dey the reet vent to the szncorial - Theodore 'md I spent :5 hours It the

Gallery – and yesterday being Sunday, we all went to the gallery in the
Gallery - and yesterday being Sunday, we all went to the gallery in the

morning. Nettie the rest to a bull fight! We found the royal park distinctly
morning. ”9““ and I t° drive in an afternoon -m:~='r8N-‘M*mmr Io preihi‘ W: oeuy

depressing – limited, badly cared for, wretchedly planted – afterwards we
“red but sore so cold end tirod so could on ‘0‘.

drove to the great park – but were so cold and tired we could not
enjoy W “(1 on. honounderlng It the crm. of pooplo in tho 9:: 13' .n »; tw‘.‘ Pm, did

enjoy anything and came home wondering at the crowds of people in the
ii oh "roots; and u “where in the big city of Moor-id found the

Park, and in the streets, and if anywhere in the big city of Madrid there
royal pork ainisotly do- . a; i . x 1 : . there

could be anybody left in a house. We got off at 6 tonight for Seville. Jones
ehﬂ bruybody left in a house. lo got on at 6 tonight for Seviliik 41%

is packing – and we take our last afternoon at the gallery. Granada. Nov. 29.
is puking and so tako our last afternoon et tho pun-"y.- g:gg§g;,”hiioi'gg. Iona e

We had a most uncomfortable ride to Seville the other night – arriving about
not uncomfortable. ride to Sevillo the other night - Arriving ebonyio

10 in the morning. Went to the Hotel de Madrid, and were shown to the very
 in the morning. lent to the Hotel de hdrid, snd sore chain to the Very

rooms we occupied 7 years ago, with Charlie and Nellie. After breakfast went
rooms we occupied 7 years ago, with Charlie and shine. After breakfast nut

to the Cathedral, where we were not allowed to put our heads in hardly – as
to tho Cathedral, when we were not nllmd to put our heads in hardly - as

the whole great structure was filled with scaffolding and mighty supports.
the whole great structure we fill“! with scaffolding and mighty supporto.

Soon after we were last there, one of the great central piers toppled over one
soon ofter we were last there, one of the great control piers toppled over one

night – and the whole edifice on examination was found so unsettled by various
night - and the sholo odifioe on examination was found no unsettled by various

earthquakes that a mighty restoration was necessary. In the afternoon a short
earthquakes that a mighty restoration was nooosnsry‘ In the after- noon I

 visit to the almost uninteresting gallery, and to the Caradid hospital, and
lhort visit to the almost uninterestink gallery. and to the Clradid hospital, and

then to the Aleazar, and a last peep into the Cathedral in the gloom of the
 to the Aloaznr, and a last poop into the Cethe- dml in the gloom of tro

evening, brought us back to the hotel in time for tea – and we lamented, at
evening. ”WEN" “'5 b’” to the Mt“ in “M for ten — and we lamented, at

least Theodore and I, that time and money had been wasted in Seville. A start
10551: Theodore and 1, that ”tin. and money had been wasted in Ssdlle. A start

the next morning at 10, and a long railway ride to very tired and a long ride
the next morning st 10, and a long ruil'ny ride to Granada which we reached 1t 8:30

up to this hotel in the Alhambra grounds. Today it has rained. I have stayed
 in the evening,W Waite 1W riding) te’ this mmm.1 Wm my»:

in doors. The hotel is almost empty – a stray American or two – and 2
in doors. 11.. hotel my.» . J Y > it . ‘ W S “Wherinn 01- two - end 2

pleasant English people. The former name Biete Suelos, which it carried when
pleeeent English people. The {W‘u*ﬂ“e“§niln. which it carried when

we were here before, has been changed into Hotel de Roma – it is much the same
hotel 

thing however – with a little freshening in the way of paint and paper – but
 in the nus-hrs muses. flrf‘l‘d“1mu°ul - 

far from luxurious – the table the best thing about it. Our rooms are small
 the table ‘the beet thing about it. Our Home ere"‘-i1!=ehdrderk end

and dark and not cheerful. Cairo. Shepheards Hotel. Dec. 21st. It seems a
 not cheerful. m Shepherds Hem. Dee; 2151. --I{ eeens a

great stretch of time since I last wrote anything, and the days have been
great stretch of time since I last wrote anything, end the dept hewe been

inexpressibly long and tiresome. The cold that I began to take in the chill
inexpressibly lung and tiresome. The cold that I Wriee Me in the chill

Madrid gallery grew worse and worse, and I am still in its clutches. We stayed
lindrid gallery grew worse and worse, and I an etill in its clutghes. Ve stayed

three days at Granada – and it rained more or less all the time – it was not
three days at Granada - and it ruined Here or lese :11 the time - it was not

cold, except in the house and in our dreary little sitting room, overhung by
cold, except in the house Ind in our dreary little sitting room, cvsrhung by

the weeping and dripping trees, with the perpetual sound of a little
the weeping end ‘ dripping treee, with the perpetual sound of a little

splashing fountain below, it was too gloomy to be brightened by the tiny
splashing foun- tain Ml", it Ian too gloomy to be brightened by the tiny

stove, that only smoked and never burned – our bedrooms were very damp. We
stove, that only smoked and never burned — our bedrooms were very damp. We

left for Gibraltar on Sunday Dec. On the 5 o’clock train, which made it
left for Blbraltnr on Sunday, Dec. on t305 o'clock train, which made it

necessary to be called at a quarter to 4, in order to dress, breakfast, and
neoem-nry to be called at a quarter to 4. in "d" t° “”3' "uk- fnet. and

drive the long distance to the station. Theodore and Mr. Lapsley breakfasted
drive the lam: distance to the station. Theodore end Mr- Lansley breakfast“

down stairs – but Nettie and I took our wretched little meal of bad coffee,
down stairs - but "attic and I ‘°°k our 'rﬁcmd little meal of bad coffee.

bad eggs and butter in our room by the light of the lamp. It seemed quite in
bad 0883 and butt” in our melanchﬂy sittirgf... *1 eg- light of the leap. It lee-ed mt. “

the middle of the night when we got into the omnibus and there was
an um. “ a. t“ ““193 113’»? 3. night one; ee _ if :3me the the omnibus end there wee

an air of flight or secret adventure in it. We had some time to wait in the
en eir of flixKer eeret tug. ' m ”arm S in it'.

draughty station – and then Nettie and I had a Berlina to ourselves, in
le ha some time to nu in

consideration of my ailing throat, and the necessary amount of tobacco smoke
 the menu eueke wed"! end Lepeley

Theodore and Lapsley had to manufacture. So we smuggled down in our corners,
 had to manufacture. So we emuggled down in our eornere.

and went promptly to sleep. At 10 o’clock we reached Bobadilla, where we
end went prenptly to sleep. At 10 o' clock we reached Behedilll. where we

breakfasted and changed cars. As the day wore on the wind became very cold and
breehfeeted and chenged care. A: the day were on the wind beeue very cold end

violent – our speed was anywhere from 8-10 miles an hour. We arrived at
violent - our epeed wee enywhere from - 10 lilee en hour. We arrived at

Algemesi after dark in a pouring rain to learn that no boat had been running
Algemeei after dark in ~. pouring rain to learn that no boat had been runvdng

from Gibraltar because of the storm, for 3 days. We were plunged into instant
from Gibraltar because of the etern, for 3 deye. We were plunged into instant

despair, when we were accosted by a pleasant friendly voice in English which
deepnir, when we were eeoeeted by n pleasant friendly voice Ln English which

explained to us that its owner was the Gen. Sup. of the English R.R. – and
ex- pleined to He that its oener was the Gen. gun. of the English R.R. - end

he kindly invited us to his rooms near by until some place could be found for
he kindly invited us to his roome near by until eome place could be found for

the night. The pleasant sitting room looked most cheerful – and he gave me a
the night. The pleaeent eittinu room looked moet cheer- ful - and he geve me e

glass of wine and a biscuit – and we warmed and dried ourselves before getting
glee: of wine and a biscuit - end we warned end dried oureelvee before getting

into the curious little affair on wheels called a carriage – Mr. Johnson too,
into the curious little affair on wheele celled e eurriege - Lr. Johnson too,

kindly sent one of his men, speaking both English and Spanish with us. The
kindly sent one of his men, epeek- ing oath Buglieh and bpenieh with us. he

first hotel to which we went had only 2 rooms to give us. Then we went to
riéht hotel to which we went hid only 2 rooms to give us. Tkan we went to

another, where we found all the rooms we wanted – very clean and almost
another, where we found all the rooms we wanted - very clean and almost

comfortable – and we were thankful to get a really good dinner, and go to bed.
corfortnble - and we were thankful to get a really good dinner, an; go to 2nd.

It was kept by an old man, with a large family of sons and daughters, who were
It was kept by an old men with a large family of none and daughters, who were

the station, uncertain whether the boat would come over from Gib. or if we
the I gory‘nt. of the house. The next morning after breakfuet we drove back.

would be obliged to go back for 2 stations on the R.R. and drive for 3 hours
. 2 et-‘tione on the LR. Ind cit-We Vem'ﬁa‘te €16. men: an. uitﬁﬁ-‘M‘. $111 in heerd the

to Gib. Again Mr. Johnson came to our aid, and took us to his rooms, until
“WW - W “diode" telking ebou’c building nilwnye - and h. Johneon come to our aid, and

we heard the boat was coming, where we sat for an hour – he and Theodore
took boat was coming, where we not for .SMW‘WE m0 

talking about building railways – and he showed us a huge book of photographs
 book of photogrlphe

that he had taken of the road in its various phases – and told us of the
that he had taken of the road in “ﬁfﬁiﬁﬁi‘mm 3 and told no of the

special difficulties they encountered from Gib. to Cordova. Then we went out
special difficulties they euomwﬁ‘ﬁl 61b. to Cordove. Then we went out

to the pier which extends some distance – and found that some of it was quite
to the pier which .Wm‘i'amm. - end found that um. or it was quite

covered with water – the waves breaking from time to time over it. Our little
covered with «131‘ -‘:the’" wives bruung from time to cm. over it. Our little

steamer lay some distance out, bobbing up and down on the rough water, and
Itmfihy Idle diltuxce out, bobbing up nnd down on the rough water, end

there were 2 small boats to take us and our luggage out. So we waded in some
the“ vol-e 2 null beets to take ua and our 1m gage out. 8e we waded ill‘ glziliz'blucoa

places ankle deep in water, and then we plumped into the boat which was
 ankle deep in water, and then we plumped into the but M63 wee"dr1pping

dripping with water, and lifting on the waves in a most unpleasant manner.
 with water, and lifting on the wevee in a most 1111910:th dunner.

However we finally reached our former rooms in the Royal Hotel in Gib., and
However we finally reached our former room in the Ro'yel hath in 011). and

Mr. Lapsley said goodbye at once and went off to the Werra in which he was
Mr. lapeley said goodbye at once and went off to the I”?! in which he we-

going to Genoa. The rain poured hopelessly all that day, and all the next,
going to Genoa. The min poured hopeleeely 111 that day, and all the next,

while we waited for our P. & O. steamer which was signaled at 4 – when I was
while we waited for our P. d. O. etemer which "I signalled at 4 ’ when I we

bundled into numerous wraps, with a shawl tied over my head, put into a
bundled into *numeroue wnpe, with a shawl tied over my head, out intra a

carriage, and then into a small boat, and finally landed on the deck of the
carriage, and then into n emell boat. and finally landed on the deck of the

Oriental more dead than alive – I at once went to bed and sent for the ship’s
ririentnl more dead then alive - I '1'. one. went to bed and sent for the ship's

doctor – a very kind, dapper little man in his dinner dress, who told me to
doctor - A very 'rind dapper little man in his dinner dreel. "W ”M ""5 t°

stay in bed, and gave me some nauseous drugs – and there I days, with many
etey in ‘ ’ bed and gave me one nauseous drug! " ““d the“ I did any {or

a cockroach to keep me company – our rooms were very good – the boat was
{our .( Wham u m, .. ...,,., - m m." m, “,7 30'0"“. “M - 

crowded – every berth full – but we all had our rooms to ourselves. We made
 every berth full - but we .11 he our WWW'WW mu 

Malta the evening of Friday jut at sunset and stopped some hour to coal – and
 the evening of may just et eun- ". a m Wk“ 5. “‘1' - end

arrived at Brindisi Sunday morning. English mail – 900 bags arrived at 10pm.
errlved at Brindlei Sundey 11%.“me - one bag- - err-1nd .t 10 an.

But it rained most of the time and I could not be on deck. I was immensely
But 1: WWW Clem (ii I could not be on deck. I wee immensely

bored by the whole voyage – Wednesday afternoon we sighted the Damietta light
505‘ W“ m “NW” - Wednesday utter-neon we sighted the Deal- om

– and at 5 o’clock cat anchor at Port Said where we lay until midnight coaling
new “fee in s o‘eleek an enehor at Port and where we 1” mtl'Mﬁt ‘eimng min.

again. What a scene from the Inferno it was, those black figures in the glare
 What a scene from the Inferno 1t wee. theee Hfiiﬁ3f13ifeeL1n the glare

of the torches! We were all packed and ready to land as Ismailia early in the
of the torches: We were all peeked .end resd9 ‘b‘lehd I3 Kenellle early in the

morning – were called at 4:30 – but it was after 6 before we got off in the
morning - were celled at 4:50 ‘-’ built “Win offer 6 before we get off in the

tender. Our 3 nice English boys who sat at table with us were up to see us off
tender. Our 3 nice llilidh'beye who set at table with ul ware up to see us off

– as well as the Doctor and with no regreats I looked my last at the Oriental
- es well It the-"Debt" and with no regrets I looked my last at the Orientel

as she steamed away to Suez. We had breakfat and a drive at Ismailia and
no she “emf-buy te ﬁnes. to had hteekfest and a drive et mum. end

took the train at 1 o’clock arriving here at 5:30. Found Mohammed waiting for
was-3m train at 1 o'clock arriving here at 5:50. round nous-nod elitin; fer

us and gladly took possession of our pleasant rooms here. The next morning we
at and gladly took possession of our pleeeent roens here. The next morning we

drove over on the other ide of the river to inspect several dahabeahs and at
drove ower on the other slde cf the rivar to inspect sever-ll de'hebeehs end at

last went to our old Herodotus – which we found in fine order – she having
last went to our old Herodotus - Mich we found in fine order — ehe having

been entirely scraped and repainted outside and in. Our old Reis, Fooley,
been entirely scraped end repeinted outside Our old “013’ yoolgy'

Hasan, and others of our old crew were on her – and gave us the heartiest
unseen, and othere of our old crew were and in. on her - and gave us the heartieet

welcome – and we felt at home there. We looked her carefully over, and decided
welcome - and we felt at home there. 3e ICOked her eerefully over, and decided

to make a condition of our taking her that she should have new carpets –
to make a condition of our taking her that she ehould have new carpets -

curtains etc. which to choose them – and Nettie and I met the agent in the
curtaine etc. which Ros- to‘dtch'e agent when we saw his: eccieded to at once - and

afternoon at Pasquale’s, a large shop here – and drove them all out of their
we were snowed“*“m‘h’” ‘ W 41'"- thu an out of um:-

wit because of our impossible tastes. Never have I seen anything so hideous in
um.- WUNVMW Wtoo. Novor hon I soon uything oo hid- ."

the way of carpets and stuffs. We at last chose not what we liked, but what
“wink“. m‘ Ind-“uni. vio at lut cholo not whot wo Mt’u‘M-’~~ 1““ “Monica-Mo.

was least objectionable, and Theodore and Nettie report that they turn out
 and Thoodoro and lottio ro- pm:~€~yrml M Vory won.

very well. For after leaving Pasquale’s we drove to Dr. Sandwith’s office, who
hr oftor having ruqunlo'o wo dvoto ioﬁllu.llndil‘h'o oftioo. who

pounded me and stethoscoped me, and said I must go home and stay in the house
poundod no and wtotho-oopod mo. ud‘od‘wI-smﬂjo‘hno m Itoy in tho houu

until I got better. Since then, I have stayed in two rooms, and the week has
until I got bottor. Sinooatill. 1 halo wooyod in two rooms, and tho wook hoo

been long, and I find it difficult to get rid of my cough. Our rooms are at
boon long. Ind Il$ll4$ lﬁtﬂoult to got rid of my cough. Hur roots on ot

the front of the hotel, and overlook the street and entrance and terrace, so
tho front olgtho hotol. and ovorlook tho otnet dud ontronco and torrooo, I.

that I can stare at the amusing and ever shifting panorama and I do stand and
that I ool.linro ot the annulus dnd over shifting punctual and I do “and-unto", 

tare, until I am too tired to look longer. Fortunately our sitting room and my
 until I In too tirod to look longor. Yortunatoly our outing to. ond my

room that opens out of it, have both of them open grates, and we have kept
room that opens out o! it, luv. both of thou opon gut“. old Io hovo kopt

fires burning every day. The weather is not very good – as Dr. Sandwith says
{iron burning every day. The "other in not vory good - on Dr. Sondwith ny-

“you must remember this is our rough winter weather”. My room is really huge –
"you must remember this in our rough wintor wooihor'. Ry room is roolly huge -

with two lofty French windows – two single lace canopied beds –with their
with two lofty {touch win- dowo - two tingle loco canopied buds — with their

very necessary mosquito nets, two enormous wardrobes – equally large bureau,
very nooousury moo- quito not... two onomous wardrobes - equally largo burouu,

dressing table, washstand, lounge and square table in the middle of the room,
droning toblo, woohotond, lounge and square table in the middle of the room,

even with four trunks in it, it remains spacious. Wednesday, Dec. 26 We came
ovon with {our trunks in it, it remains opaciwa. W' ‘1. cm 

on board the Herodotus on the 23d Sunday morning – a strong south wind had
on board the Herodotus on tho 25d Sunday morning - g .trgg‘ .guth ﬁnd had